## Terminology

The terminologies in reut is slightly different those in xUnit. Be sure to
read through this section before you begin.

### Test

A test consists of exactly _one_ test function, which is called `action`.
The test object implemented following interfaces:

* Assertion interface, including methods from native `assert` module as
  well as extended assertion methods. This tends to be used for writing
  tests
* Test controlling interface, which controls the running process of the
  test. This tends to be used as asynchronous test helpers.
* An evented interface for reporters.

There's no test case in reut.

### Action

The action calls assertion methods to accomplish testing tasks.

### Test Suite

A test suite is a collection of tests.

Within one single test suite, tests are run serially.

## Module `reut` and SuiteMonad

While using reut you never directly talk to test suites and tests (i.e., no
`new TestSuite()` or alike).

SuiteMonad is the method chaining interface for defining test suites and
tests.

The `reut` module provides functions to create SuiteMonad so you can start
writing tests.

### reut.suite(name)

Create a test suite and returns the corresponding test suite monad.

Example:

    var reut = require("reut")
    reut.suite("Chain starts")
      .setup( ... )
      .setup( ... )
      .test( ... )
      .setup( ... )
      .test( ... )

### reut.test(desc, action)

Define a test and also create an anonymous test suite to contain the test.
Handy when you don't really care about the suite's name.

Example:

    var reut = require("reut")
    reut.test("A sample test", function(test) {
      // Test code goes here.
    })
      // Since there's an anonymous test suite you can also provide setup.
      .setup( ... )
      // And even add more tests
      .test( ... )

### reut.run()

Exposed for writing self-run module.

    var reut = require("reut")
    // nextTick it so this line stays at top.
    if (module == require.main) process.nextTick(reut.run)

### suiteMonad.setup(action)

Define one setup function for the test suite.

Example:

    var reut = require("reut")
      , fs = require("fs")
    reut.suite("Multiple setup supported")
      .setup(function(fixture) {
        fixture.message = "Take this."
      })
      .setup(function(fixture, done) {
        fs.stat("/", function(err, stat){
          fixture.stat = stat
          done()
        })
      })

### suiteMonad.teardown(action)

Needless to say.

Note that all setup and teardown functions are run parallelly.

### suiteMonad.startup(action), suiteMonad.shutdown(action)

Stolen from Ruby Test::Unit 2.0. They are run per suite instead of per
test. And reut supports multiple asynchronous startup/shutdown.

### suiteMonad.test(desc, action)

Add a test to the suite. Tests always run after all the setups finish.

The test object and fixture object are passed to the test action.

Example:

    var reut = require("reut")
    reut.suite("Collecting tests")
      .test("A simple test", function(test, fixture) {
        test.deepEqual(fixture, {foo: "bar"})
      })
      .setup(function(fixture){
        fixture.foo = "bar"
      })

## Controlling Interface of Test

### test.end

Explicitly finish the test.

Example:

    var reut = require("reut")
    reut.test("End me", function(test) {
      test.end()
      test.ok(false, "You won't see me in report")
    })

### (Setter) test.timeout

`test.timeout = 100` is exactly equivalent to:

    setTimeout(function(){
      test.end()
    }, 100)

Later assignment to `test.timeout` would override the previous one.

_NOTICE_: The default timeout for a test is only _1ms_ so it works like a
synchronous test. Always declare a timeout long enough for your
asynchronous test.

## Assertion Interface of Test

Example:

    var reut = require("reut")
    reut.test("A sample test", function(test) {
      test.ok(1, "Native assertion method")

      test.typeOf(test, "object", "An extended one")
      test.instanceOf({}, Object)

      test.include("foobar", "foo", "Works with string")
      test.include([3, 5, 6], 5, "And array")

      test.length([], 0)
      test.length("goofy", 5)

      test.in(1, ["o", "k"])
      test.in("foo", {foo: "here"})

      test.match("holy shit", /hi/)
    })

### test.cb([fn [, message]])

Returns a function and make sure it is called at least once before test
ends.  Context and arguments are passed along to function `fn` so you can
also write assertions within `fn`. This works best together with
`test.timeout`.

Each time the returned function is called counts as one passed assertion.

Example:

    var reut = require("reut")
      , fs = require("fs")
    reut.test("fs.stat", function(test) {
      test.timeout = 25 // Might be running that long.
      fs.stat("/etc/passwd", test.cb(function(err, stat){
        test.instanceOf(stat, fs.Stats, "tricky, huh?")
      }))
    })

Notice the broken snippet below:

    var reut = require("reut")
      , fs = require("fs")
      , file = "/etc/passwd"

    reut.test("fs.stat", function(test) {
      test.timeout = 50 // Might be running longer
      // This level of callback is not wrapped with assert.cb
      fs.stat(file, function(err, stat){
        // So the following is NOT guaranteed to execute!
        fs.readFile(file, assert.cb(function(err, content){
          assert.typeOf(content, "string", "Bad example")
        }))
      })
    })

### test.emits(source, type, [fn [, message]])

This is roughly equivalent to:

    source.on(type, test.cb(fn, message))

## Command Line Runner

reut provides a command line runner `reut`. It loads all arguments as test
files, runs them, and generates report for failures and errors.

Usage:

    $ reut [files]
